DOCS-2083 Azure US3 Portal (#10937)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/integrations/guide/azure-portal.md

---
title: Datadog in the Azure Portal
kind: guide
further_reading:
  - link: "integration/azure"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Azure integration"
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/azure-datadog-partnership"
    tag: Blog
    text: "Microsoft partnership embeds Datadog natively in the Azure portal"
---

{{< site-region region="us,eu,gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">
  This guide is for Datadog customers using US3 with Azure.
</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

> This guide is for managing the integration between Azure and Datadog in the Azure portal using the Datadog resource. The Datadog resource in Azure represents the connection between a Datadog organization and an Azure subscription. Create a Datadog resource in Azure before proceeding with this guide.

Reviewer: Let's add a link to the configuration section of the Azure integration page here where it says "create a datadog resource in Azure"

For Datadog organizations billed through the Azure Marketplace:
- If the deleted Datadog resource is the only Datadog resource mapped to its associated Datadog organization, logs and metrics are no longer sent to Datadog and all billing stops for Datadog through Azure. Datadog support will reach out to confirm next steps with your account.
- If there are additional Datadog resources mapped to the associated Datadog organization, deleting a Datadog resource only stops sending logs and metrics for its associated Azure subscription.

If your Datadog organization is NOT billed through the Azure Marketplace, deleting a Datadog resource just removes the integration for that Azure subscription.

### Change plan

Select "Change Plan" on the overview page to change your Datadog billing plan.

{{< img src="integrations/guide/azure_portal/change-plan1.png" alt="Azure US3 Change plan" responsive="true" style="width:100%;">}}

The portal retrieves all the available Datadog plans for your tenant, this includes any private offers. Select the appropriate plan and click "Change Plan".

## Datadog org configurations
### Metrics and logs

> Select "Metrics and logs" in the left sidebar to change the configuration rules for metrics and logs. See the Azure documentation to [Configure metrics and logs][1].

Reviewer: Let's link to our own docs for this

Reviewer: On the new azure integration main page

| Column            | Description                                                                                                                                                                  |
|-------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Resource name     | The app name                                                                                                                                                                 |
| Resource status   | Whether the app service is stopped or running. The app service must be running to initiate install. If the app service is stopped, installing the Datadog Agent is disabled. |
| App service plan  | The specific plan configured for the app service                                                                                                                             |
| Extension version | The Datadog extension version number                                                                                                                                         |

#### Install

> To install the Datadog extension, select the appropriate app, then click "Install Extension". The portal asks for confirmation to install the extension. Select "OK" to begin installation. This restarts your app and adds the following settings:

Reviewer: Let's link "Datadog extension" to https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/azure_app_services

- `DD_API_KEY:<DEFAULT_API_KEY>`
- `DD_SITE:us3.datadoghq.com`
- `DD_LOGS_INJECTION:true`

Azure shows the status as `Installing` until the Agent is installed and provisioned. After the Datadog Agent is installed, the status changes to `Installed`.

> **Note**: Ensure you are adding the extension to apps with supported runtimes. The Datadog resource does not limit or filter the list of apps.

Reviewer: let's link "supported runtimes" to https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/azure_app_services/#requirements

---
title: Datadog in the Azure Portal
kind: guide
further_reading:
  - link: "integration/azure"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Azure integration"
  - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/azure-datadog-partnership"
    tag: Blog
    text: "Microsoft partnership embeds Datadog natively in the Azure portal"
---

{{< site-region region="us,eu,gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">
  This guide is for Datadog customers using US3 with Azure.
</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

> This guide is for managing the integration between Azure and Datadog in the Azure portal using the Datadog resource. The Datadog resource in Azure represents the connection between a Datadog organization and an Azure subscription. [Create a Datadog resource][1] in Azure before proceeding with this guide.

Reviewer: @ruthnaebeck The "Create a Datadog Resource" link should direct to the azure marketplace page here: https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/ruth/docs-2083/integrations/guide/azure-marketplace/?tab=create#create-datadog-resource

currently its sending to the main integration page which is no good.

### Links

The overview page provides links to view Datadog dashboards, logs, and host maps.

### Resource summary

The overview page provides a summary table of the resources sending logs and metrics to Datadog. This table includes the following columns:

| Column             | Description                                                               |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Resource type      | The Azure resource type                                                   |
| Total resources    | The count of all resources for the resource type                          |
| Logs to Datadog    | The count of resources sending logs to Datadog through the integration    |
| Metrics to Datadog | The count of resources sending metrics to Datadog through the integration |

### Disable

To stop sending logs and metrics from Azure to Datadog, select "Disable" on the overview page, then click "OK".

{{< img src="integrations/guide/azure_portal/disable.png" alt="Azure US3 Disable integration" responsive="true" style="width:100%;">}}

> **Note**: After disabling, you are still billed for other Datadog services that aren't related to monitoring metrics and logs.

Author: ```suggestion
**Note**: Disabling the Datadog resource stops the submission of metrics and platform logs to Datadog for the associated subscription. Any resources in the subscription submitting data directly to Datadog through the Agent or extension are unaffected.
```
